So welcome back, guys.
Now we will going to study the concept of comparison callback.
Now, this concept of comparison callback is not very different from the callback, which we have studied
in the previous lecture.
So our goal is that the application should be able to insert application data in link list in sorted
order.
Right.
So we shall follow the exact same steps as in case of searching a record.
Now, we already know how application can teach the library to perform application specific function,
so a developer wants that whenever he inserts the data in a linked list, the list itself takes the
responsibility to insert the data in assorted.
So, of course, this requirement needs to compare the data that is being inserted with the data elements,
which is already present in a list.
Right.
So this is very obvious.
When you insert a new element, for example, in an area, you compare that particular element with
the existing element of the ATI in order to locate the correct position of that element in the area.
Right.
So that your elements are sorted.
So this should be intelligent to compare to application specific data, objects of same type being maintained
by a list.
We can achieve this by comparison callbacks.
Right.
So let us do it step by step and note that the step that now we will going to discuss is exactly the
same step that we discussed in case of search callbacks.
So the code directory that now we will going to discuss is the following part.
That is library designing slash programmable lab slash comparison callbacks.
So now let us go through the steps regarding how you can write a comparison callback and register this
comparison callback with the library.
So step one, we need to implement a callback function in application C source file right now.
You can see that following is the prototype of comparison function.
It returns an end.
Right.
And you can see that the argument is of type Y to stop, not that that the function signature is again,
generic.
Right.
So this function takes the responsibility to compare the two application data objects.
And if the data objects are equal than this function, return zero.
If the data object is less than the second data object, then it returns minus one.
Otherwise it returns one.
Right.
So not that the data objects here in this case is an object of type student.
So let us see how this comparison function look like so you can see that I'm in comparison callback
directory and inside this directory, take a look at application dot.
See the source file.
So you can see that I have not modified anything significant in the source file except that I have written
an additional function called student comparison function.
Right.
And we have already discussed the signature opper type of this function.
So you can see that the two arguments that dysfunction is accepting is actually the pointer to the object
of type student.
Right.
And now we compare the two student object against each other.
So you can see that I have written down the criteria which says that one student, one is said to be
less than that.
STUDENT two Right.
So you can see that let us compare the students alphabetically on their names.
First, if the two students have the same name, that younger student should come before the student
in the sorted list.
And if the two students have the same age, then we will break the tie by comparing the weight of the
two student like the student comes before the heavier one.
And if in case that the weight of the student is all the same, then a student with numerically lesser
role number comes before in that list.
So here you can see that we have implemented the logic to compare the two student objects.
Right.
And by following this criteria of comparison, we return the value minus one.
If student one is less than a student, do we return the value one?
If a student two is greater than a student one and we actually assert the program, if the two students
are equal, that is, we are not allowed to insert two equal student objects in the list.
So you can see that all you need to write a comparison function which compare the two application specific
data objects of the same type.
In this case, the object is of type student.
Now, going forward in step two.
We will going to define a callback function pointer in inkless library so we can see that we have defined
a new function point, remember, in the structure which represent localist.
Now, the purpose of this function pointer is same.
That is, it should be able to store the address of comparison function, which we discussed in the
previous step.
So you can see that in this code, in the dot x file, we have list structure and this is structure.
We have specified function pointer as an additional member.
Now, step number three, we need to write comparison, callback, registration function, write this
new function needs to be added to the list library code and we need to provide its implementation in
the source file.
That is the URL doxy.
So you can see that following is the prototype of this registration function and the purpose of this
registration function is same as before.
This function will going to register the application a specific function with the list.
So the application will use this function in order to give intelligence to the library so that the library
can compare the two application specific data objects.
So you can see that.
Here is a registered comparison callback function, right?
So in each file, we will provide the declaration of this function.
And if we open the alleged Nazi file, so this is Daniel Doxy file, we have provided the implementation
of this function.
So you can see that the implementation of this function is quite obvious.
It just registers the comparison function provided by application with the localist.
Right.
And eventually, in step number four, we need to write a generic insert function in the library.
This function can be used to insert the new application data in a linked list in a sorted order, so
following is the prototype of this function.
If this function is able to insert the data successfully in a linked list, then return zero on success.
And if for some reason this function fails to insert data in our linked list, then return minus one
on failure.
So let us discuss the implementation of this function.
Of course, this function needs to be implemented in at least.
So in the dog seesaws file, you can see that this is the implementation of this function.
Now, I have implemented the logic of this function as the insertion sort, so the following logic that
you see in this function is nothing, but it is the insertion sort.
So the argument of dysfunction is a pointer to the application data, which needs to be inserted into
our linked list, right.
So you can see that at various places, I need to invoke the comparison function whenever there is a
need to compare the new application data with the existing application data that is being held by the
Lord of a linked list.
So you don't have to scratch your head in order to go through the implementation of this function.
It is just an insertion sort.
And I expect you that, you know, the insertion sort and you should be able to insert a new data in
a linked list as per the insertion sort.
So you can see that the implementation of this function is, again, application agnostic in this implementation.
I have not written any line of code which is application specific.
I have not used any word structure, such as a student or employee in this piece of code, and therefore
this library code is application independent so you can go through the implementation of dysfunction
by yourself and understand its logic on implementation if you want.
In fact, you are free to implement any other algorithm for inserting an element in the linked list
so that the element is inserted in a certain manner.
So coming back to the slide.
So in the step number five, after creating a doubly linked list in application registered the appropriate
comparison callback function, we're doubly linked list using the API register comparison callback.
Right.
And we are done.
So after following the steps from one to six, you can try to insert the element in a linked list using
the function dial priority, insert data and you can find a link list to verify whether the data that
has been inserted into a linked list is in a sorted order or not.
So the list library code must insert the data into the linked list as part of the comparison function
logic.
So let us take a look at application doxies source file and see that how application is able to organize
its data in a sorted order using comparison callback function.